# OpenSourcePaper
Anna Prewitt 
Professor Dunn
CIT-225
10 October 2021

                                         Issues within the Open Source Movement
The Open Source Movement allows anyone who obtains the software to manipulate it in any way they want to best fit the needs of the person editing the code. Open Source Software is also less likely to contain bugs or security threats because it is open to anybody, and therefore can be fixed must faster than software that is not Open Source. While Open Source Software can be really helpful and convenient to developers and also helps to level out the field because of its pricing, it does come with its share of flaws. The flaw that I find the most interesting is the lack of updating and fixing that occurs within Open Source. Because Open Source does not cost money, a good amount of companies attempt to incorporate some of it into their businesses. They fail to consider that this software does not guarantee updating and bug-fixing like the expensive software does. Now that their infrastructure is at lest semi-reliant on this software and they do not know how to fix themselves, they can run into variety of issues. It is super important to invest in the maintenance of Open Source technology because Open Source is reliant on community contributions of people with different skillsets and specialities to ensure its free resources remain useable. If you cannot contribute to the maintenance yourself, you can always help financially contribute to someone who can help. Another issue facing Open Source is its sheer complexity. Open Source originally was primarily used by developers only. Now that it has reached further into the community and is being used by people who are not experts in the field, there is definitely a learning curve to its use, especially because it is changing so rapidly. Keeping the Open Source technology up to date is a continuous and sometimes vigorous task. Expecting Open Source to make everything easier from the start is unrealistic, and you do have to put in work before things will begin to move smoother. 
The community aspect of Open Source is at its core. You are relying on the people involved to keep projects usable and safe for the foreseeable future. But can you be sure this will continue forever? And how can you be sure that Open Source’s integrity will last? There are already groups of people trying to use Open Source to create publicity for themselves without actively contributing to the community. Relying on Open Source to remain good and fair software involves a element of risk. It is similar to the concept of relying on people to do good. There are always going to be people who will try to manipulate Open Source software for their personal gain and nothing else, but there is also a massive community of people who really believe in the concept of Open Source and are willing to put in the time and effort to ensure its survival. Hopefully this group of contributors will continue to make Open Source a place of security and innovation. 
